##DATX02-15-29 A Haskell-like language on the Erlang VM  
###Protocol, weekly meeting 2015-03-04.  
Location: Room 6207 EDIT building.  
Time: 15.15 - 16.00.  
Attendance: Björn, Johan L, Johan W, Liam, David, Jakob, Nick.

Moderator: Björn Norgren  
Notetaker: Johan Larsson

###Follow up on last meeting/workshop

####Status of half time presentation

Johan WS has looked at template. Seems to be mostly about planning report and current status/structure of the project. Goals etc.

About 10 minutes presentation.

Maybe talk about the problems we thought we might encounter and the ones we actually have encountered so far.

Everyone writes about their areas of responsibilty so far, problems encountered etc etc. SHOULD BE DONE AND PUSHED TO FOLDER IN DOCS REPO BEFORE FRIDAY.


####Iteration results

Work is continuing on code generation. Translation from latest AST is being made. Case expressions is being added.

Grammar has been extended with function arguments. Renamer has been fixed with pattern matching and case clauses and stuff.

Type checking has started to see some progress. Björn and Johan took a start from algorithm W and is working from there, Liam has another algorithm W-like implementation.
How do we solve cross module type checking?
Add interface files like .hi in haskell? 

Add a Linker to the project?

####Next iteration?

Continue as last iteration with the addition of presentation to the responsibilites of David and Jakob (everyone else also helps with material).

Type checking will look at branches to see if a merge is possible/wanted.

###Other items

Video: Simon Peyton Jones - how to give a good research talk (tip from Nick).

Fackspråk 2: David went there and briefs the group.

###Any important upcoming events?

Half time presentation.
Individual evaluation of group work 2015-03-13, fill in on PingPong.

###When will we meet again? Where?

Weekly meeting 2015-03-11, 15.15, room 6207.

###Meeting adjourned
