##DATX02-15-29 A Haskell-like language on the Erlang VM  
###Protocol, weekly meeting 2015-02-25.  
Location: Room 6209 EDIT building.  
Time: 15.15 - 16.40
Attendance: Björn, Johan L, Johan W, Liam, David, Jakob, Nick.


Moderator: Björn Norgren  
Notetaker: Johan Larsson


###Follow up on last meeting/workshop

####Fackspråk

Meet another group to give and get response.
Beforehand we should write the feedback down according to template.
Book a time slot to get paired with a group, will then exchange reports etc.
At the moment about half of the slots are booked.
Earlier bookings discuss ideas more and later bookings discuss presentation writing more in depth.

Booked meeting 2015-03-19, 14.15-15.15.
Location: Language Lab.

####Second iteration results

Code generator has encountered some issues with applications that needs to be fixed in some earlier step. Discussion about our AST and how core erlang etc works. 

Type checking has been mostly reading and not much implementation yet. We decide to have a workshop discussing the subject. 

WORKSHOP 2015-02-27 10-12 Idegr4, 12-16 Idegr6.
(read up on Hindley Milner and SPJ-book ch. 8)

Clean up, branches. Johan WS and David will look at branches and merge to develop.

####Next iteration?

Preprocessing step after renamer? Or do this in renamer?

All functions should have fixed arity in the intermediate representation.
Make everthing as explicit as possible before it is given to code generator.

Have two representations in AST, ex. f(x,y,z) and f(x)(y)(z) for applications.

parser/renamer/clean up: David

renamer/code gen: Jakob

type checking: Björn, Liam, Johan L

code generator: Johan WS


###Other items

Writing:
Jakob will mail Arne again, we will continue using markdown for now.

First week will be individual writing about your major responsibility areas so far and research done. Template will be added to docs.

###Any important upcoming events?

Half time presentation is in about 2 weeks. We need to decide who talks when (half time, full time, opposition).

Jakob and David are handling the half time presentation + opposition (but all group members help with material).


###When will we meet again? Where?

WORKSHOP 2015-02-27 10-12 Idegr4, 12-16 Idegr6.
Weekly meeting 2015-03-04, 15.15. In room 6207.
Fackspråk lecture 2 is either 2015-02-26 or 2015-03-03 13.15.

###Meeting adjourned



