##DATX02-15-29 A Haskell-like language on the Erlang VM  
###Protocol, weekly meeting 2015-02-11.  
Location: Room 6209 EDIT building.  
Time: 15.15 - 16.15
Attendance: Björn, Johan L, Johan W, Liam, David, Jakob, Nick.


Moderator: Björn Norgren  
Notetaker: Johan Larsson



####Follow up on last meeting/workshop

- Copyright added to repo?

  Yes!

- Style guide added to repo?

  Yes!

- Shared latex?

  No news yet.

- Alternatives if no-go?

  Share LaTeX sources on git and build locally.

- Accept/reject report plan?

  To do: Johan WS assembles the document (according to template), uploads to Github and mails the document to Nick.

- What needs to be done if reject?

  -

- Fackspråk booked?

  Does Nick want to come? First meeting is about responding to another groups report and getting feedback on our own. Maybe wait a few weeks to have more of a report to show and get feedback on.

We focus on the code for now and postpone the work on the report (post report plan) until at least next weeks meeting.  

- Language name?

  Hopper? Hopper.

- Assign responsibility for the different components of iteration 1

  We forgot to do this last time!

  - Lexer/parser

      David and Johan L.

  - AST generator / desugaring

      Jakob.

      Fairly easy for parser to produce and nice to work on for code generator.

  - Type checker
  
     Björn and Liam. Type checker will not be part of pipeline in first iteration but work will be done to prepare for later phases.

  - Code generator

      Johan WS.

  - Integration (lexer/parser->type checker->code generator)

      Combined with AST gen. and some parts will be handled by group members working on parts of the compiler.

  - Testing

      You're in charge of testing your own part (but take help from the others).

  - ...



####Roles

- How has it worked out so far?

  Everything has worked out fine with the current roles. As long as roles are switched out regularly the work load should not be a problem.

- Who does what in the next phase?

  Keep current roles.

- How long is next phase?

  Up until half time presentation. Discuss division of presentation tasks at a later date.


####Other items

  - Concurrent ML (Nick recommends checking out).
  - Group meetings should be logged in personal time log.

####Any important upcoming events?

  - Deadline plan report Friday. Have drafts done by thursday evening ready to format for complete document.


####When will we meet again? Where?

  Workshop - Friday 2015-02-13 12.00-16.00 6209.


####Meeting adjourned
