##DATX02-15-29 A Haskell-like language on the Erlang VM  
###Protocol, weekly meeting 2015-02-04.  
Location: Room 6209 EDIT building.  
Time: 15.15 - 16.25
Attendance: Björn, Johan L, Johan W, Liam, David.  
(Jakob sick, Nick away on travels)  
Moderator: Björn Norgren
Notetaker: Johan Larsson


###Follow up on last meeting

  - Plan report progress?
    
    Everyone has written their parts and the ones not uploaded to git repo will be uploaded. We will read each others drafts and give comments on the commits on Github before workshop on friday (see "example programs" point for workshop time).
Johan WS will be in charge of proof reading and structuring the finished document.

  - Deadline and approval for submission version of plan report?

    Review each others drafts before workshop friday. Johan WS will proof read the finished drafts.

  - Has everyone created time/personal logs?

    Everyone attending has started or will start their logs today. Most of us use Git for our documents and we decide that all group members will push their individual documents to the docs repository for easy access. 

  - Has everyone created some example programs?

    Yes, some have pushed code to the docs repo and some have the code elsewhere. A suggestion is made to have an extra workshop session to less formally discuss code and project. Everyone will read each others code before this session and we will discuss it then. Important to add comments describing the code.

    **Workshop will be held 2015-02-06 from 10.00 in room 6205 (room booked until 14.00).**

  - Report from Fackspråk (if anyone attended)?

    Johan WS has written a summary in his journal for anyone who hasn't been able to attend. David recommends that the group uses the color coded text suggested for the report in the lecture.


###Copyright of documents?

We will add a copyright notice in the readme on Github.


###Git work flow?

Style guide will be added to readme in repo. Johan WS will add some time before coding on project starts.
We will try to use pull requests to promote continuous code reviews and learning. Github has a tutorial.


###Comments on the Yhc/Erlang project (wiki.haskell.org/Yhc/Erlang/Proof_of_concept)?

Not quite applicable to what we are doing. Seems the project has not been worked on for a few years. Some other similar projects have also been found but not worked on recently. Good to see that there is interest in the subject.


###Post plan phase

  - How do we continue?

    Get aquianted with BNFC, grammars, lexers/parsers etc.
    David recommends podcast Mostly Erlang Podcast.  
    Some reading - Lisp Flavoured Erlang (and similar projects), slides for the PLT course (DAT151).  
    Iterative work process according to method description in project plan report.  
    

###Other items

- Shared LaTeX.  
  No news from Arne.

- Language for the compiler.  
  We feel that this is a choice between having it easier now (Haskell) or easier later (Erlang).
  We choose to start using Haskell and BNFC and solve later issues when we are deeper in the project and have a better understanding of the concepts.

###Any important upcoming events?

We should consider booking the Fackspråk group session. Some time after the project plan deadline should be good. One of the chalmers students could be responsible since GU cannot (as of now) book sessions in the system.
David will be responsible for booking. He will contact Nick and check the Google Calendar to find a working date.


###When will we meet again? Where?

Workshop friday 2015-02-06, room 6205, 10.00.  
Weekly meeting 2015-02-11, room 6209, 15.15.


###Meeting adjourned
