##DATX02-15-29 A Haskell-like language on the Erlang VM  
###Protocol, weekly meeting 2015-03-18.  
Location: Room 6207 EDIT building.  
Time: 15.15 - 16.15.  
Attendance: Björn, Johan L, Johan W, Liam, David, Jakob, Nick.

Moderator: Björn Norgren  
Notetaker: Johan Larsson

###Follow up on last meeting/workshop

Mostly report writing.

####Report

We've made good progress. Jakob and Liam has not contributed yet, Jakob due to health reasons and Liam due to other courses being prioritized. Liam states that he won't have much time to write in the upcoming weeks.

###Roadmap for the second half of the project time

About half of our time should be spent writing report and half of our time writing code.  
Set a deadline for writing code (at least code mentioned in the report) so we can analyse results etc and finish the report in time.  
Deadline for report is May 18th.  
We will probably skip the idea of rewriting the compiler in Hopper.  

###Next iteration (2 Weeks)

Everyone keeps adding to the report!

- Type checker: Björn, Johan L
- Module system/compilation: Jakob

Workshop to discuss/decide work going forward is to be held. 2015-03-23, 10.00.
- Algebraic data types.
- Erlang stuff.
- Start with useful, pure language.

###Review of Sandra's report

The group discussed and wrote down some pointers before the meeting.

###Other items

- Consider changing day (and time?) of weekly meeting. Middle of the week feels suboptimal. CHANGED TO MONDAYS 15.15!

- From now on add standing point on meetings: Work done on report during iteration.

- Shared LaTeX will be researched further. We have all the things we need, will try to set up repo etc.

###Any important upcoming events?

Fackspråk meeting March 19th (tomorrow)  
14.15-15.15, Språklab, Chalmers library.  

###When will we meet again? Where?

Workshop March 23rd, 10.00.  
Weekly meeting Monday March 23rd 15.00, room 6207 (Jakob gone)  
Fackspråk lecture March 26th 13.15.  

###Meeting adjourned